Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, highly significant developments occurred this
week in connection with the general subject of civil rights. Some of them in the Senate
of the United States, but perhaps the most significant occurred in Knoxville, Tennessee,
and the trial of the so-called Clinton case. What happened there, and we've heard a whole
lot about it on the floor of the Senate this week, undoubtedly had its effect on the discussions
on the floor of the Senate and elsewhere in the nation. As you know, there has been
much loose talk these days about southern juries would not conflict those charged with violating
civil rights. That is the reason that there has been an attempt in connection with the
legislation which the House passed and which the Senate is now considering to deny the trial
of the right of a trial by jury. I have a pause there, of course. Of course, juries
are sometimes make mistakes, and they are sometimes prejudiced. But I was reading a
paragraph not so long ago from a book by Justice Woody Moe Dougies, which describes juries,
their strength, as well as their shortcomings, about as well as anything I have seen. This
paragraph states, as jury reflects the attitudes and the more rays of the community from which
it is drawn. It lives only for the day and does justice according to its light. The group
of 12 who are drawn to hear a case, make the decision, and melt away. It is not present
the next day to be criticized. It is the one governmental agency that has no ambition. It
is as human as the people who make it up. It is sometimes the victim of passion. But it
also takes the sharp edges off a law and uses conscience to ameliorate a hardship. Since
it is obvious and from the community, it gives the law an acceptance which critics of
judges could not do. As the end of Justice Dougies' quotation, whether turned in jury by
convicting the troublemaker and rabble rouse or John Casper and six of his court offenders,
show that a tenancy jury takes its oath seriously. And back in victim some and acquitting others,
they showed that they were carefully considering and sorting out facts. Furthermore, I think
that the last sentence in Justice Dougies' remarks, it gives the law an acceptance which
critics of judges could not do. It is important to remember in civil rights pieces which have
a very important result on the attitudes of the community. As this broadcast is being
prepared, we are debating the jury amendment. As you know, I filed an amendment which I discussed
with you last week and which I think is workable. Senator O'Manney of Wyoming has filed a different
type of amendment, but he has now abandoned his and adopted the same general approach that
I do. I think it is safe to predict that the Senate will adopt an amendment similar
to the one that we have been talking about, particularly since the end of the outcome of
a sentence case. The amendment that we have been talking about retains the authority of
the court to enforce its own orders without a jury, which I think is necessary for the
dignity and for the authority of the court. But in any case where the person is to be criminally
prosecuted, a jury is required. Earlier this week, the Senate voted to remove most of
part three of the civil rights bill. I voted for that move. I believe that with the court's
refreying of general problems, that it would be best not to attempt any new legislation
in addition to the right to vote. In the final analysis, the bill that the Senate will
pass, I believe, will be principally a right to vote bill. This, I think, is worthwhile.
It will strengthen the democracy. With an amendment such as I have discussed, it will protect
our basic rights to a trial by jury. Under these circumstances, I am far the bill. I do
not know how long they debate on the civil rights bill will continue. Some are guessing
all the 15 of course it remains yet to see whether any fellow busards are going to be
forthcoming. I doubt that there will be a fellow bus through the bill that is limited
to the protection and the securing of a person's right to vote, which we all believe in,
and which we feel that people ought to have, all citizens ought to have, if they meet
the following conditions in the state as to age and so forth. That's all for now until
this time. Next week, goodbye.